JWT Scanner related Blog (#101)
zaproxy/zaproxy-website: site/content/blog/2020-04-17-zap-jwt-scanner/index.md

---
title: "ZAP JWT Scanner"
description: "How to scan JWT endpoints using OWASP ZAP"
images:
- https://www.zaproxy.org/blog/2020-04-17-zap-jwt-scanner/images/jwt-settings.png
type: post
tags:
- blog
date: "2020-04-17"
addSocialPreview: true
authors:
    - preetkaran20 (Karan Preet Singh Sasan)
---

> With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens there comes the need to secure them so that they are not misused because of the bad configuration or older libraries or buggy implementations. So JWT Scanner Addon is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use JWT Scanner Addon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)there comes the need to secure their use so that they are not misused because of bad configuration, older libraries, or buggy implementations. So the JWT Scanner Addon is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use it.
```

> With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs)there comes the need to secure their use so that they are not misused because of bad configuration, older libraries, or buggy implementations. So the JWT Scanner Addon is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use it.

Reviewer: Sorry it looks like I introduced an error here: 
```suggestion
With the popularity of JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) there comes the need to secure their use so that they are not misused because of bad configuration, older libraries, or buggy implementations. So the JWT Scanner Add-on is used to find such vulnerabilities and this blog explains on how to use it.
```

## Configuration

> As JWT Scanner runs with Active Scanner so most of the configurations are same as Active Scanner but there are certain configurations which are specific for JWT Scanner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As JWT add-on includes a rule for the Active Scanner but there are configuration details which are specific for the JWT add-on
```

> Under Options tab you will find JWT settings section as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under ZAP's Options dialog you will find a JWT settings section as shown below:
```

> [![JWT-Settings](./images/jwt-settings.png)]

Reviewer: This should be updated with an up-to-date pic just before the blog is published (or just after the add-on is tagged/released).

### Explanation

> In case the application which you are trying to scan is using RSA or more specifically RS* algorithm then please mention the public certificate TrustStore path and TrustStore password. These fields are used to find certain vulnerabilities related to RS* based JWT's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the application which you are trying to scan is using RSA or more specifically RS* algorithm then please configure the public certificate TrustStore path and TrustStore password. These fields are used to find certain vulnerabilities related to RS* based JWTs.
```

Public of private?

> Ignore Client Configuration Scan flag is used to ignore client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable Client Configuration Scan flag is used to ignore client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.
```

Author: yes yes ... i am fixing this.

> Ignore Client Configuration Scan flag is used to ignore client side validations like JWT token is sent to the browser in an insecure way or non-recommended way.

Reviewer: The name of this option needs to be updated.

```suggestion
Ignore Client Configuration Scan flag is used to ignore client side validations like JWT being sent to the browser in an insecure or non-recommended way.
```

> ### Vulnerabilities covered by the scanner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Vulnerability Coverage
```

> JWT scanner finds vulnerability in Client/Browser as well as Server/Library side implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JWT add-on's scan rule attempts to identified vulnerabilities in both Client/Browser and Server/Library implementations.
```

> For Client side it covers most of the vulnerabilities mentioned in [OWASP CheatSheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_Cheat_Sheet_for_Java.html#token-storage-on-client-side)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the Client side it covers most of the vulnerabilities mentioned in the [OWASP JWT CheatSheet](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/JSON_Web_Token_Cheat_Sheet_for_Java.html#token-storage-on-client-side).
```

For Server side it mainly covers following vulnerabilities:
1. [None Algorithm attack](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/#Meet-the--None--Algorithm)
2. [Algorithm Confusion attack](https://auth0.com/blog/critical-vulnerabilities-in-json-web-token-libraries/#RSA-or-HMAC-)

> 3. [Trusting JWK key provided with the Token](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-0114)

Reviewer: `JWK key`.....does the K in the acronym already mean key? If so they "key" can be dropped.

Author: yes. will remove it.

> 4. Empty JWT Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Empty JWT
```

Or `Empty Token`.

5. Null Byte Injection attack

## Conclusion

> This is the part one of the JWT Scanner for finding vulnerabilities and next we are planning to provide a JWT fuzzer and bruteforcer for JWT's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is part one of the JWT add-on for finding vulnerabilities, next we are planning to provide a JWT fuzzer and bruteforcer.
```

> 1. JWT fuzzer will be helpful for finding vulnerabilities like SQL Injection/SSRF in JWT Field values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. JWT fuzzer will be helpful for finding vulnerabilities like SQL Injection/SSRF in JWT field values.
```
